503 Proposal: Research Project Assignment 1

The project I am working on is a continuation of my 501 project, which is largely a replication of Alan Gerber, Gregory Huber, David Doherty and Cono Dowling’s piece, “Is There A Secret Ballot: Ballot Secrecy Perceptions and Their Implications for Voting Behavior”.  I obtained the data from their site, http://huber.research.yale.edu/materials/30_replication.zip;  This data was collected from a YouGov Polimetrix survey from 2008, a RDD  sample of Michigan voters in 2005, and a RDD telephone survey from 2010, so it’s randomized from a diverse, nationally representative set of respondents. No further processing of the data should be required, as I currently have the data and it is largely clean and easy to use.

The main question I will (continue to) examine is whether a voter’s perception of ballot secrecy affects his vote choice, and under what circumstances. The DV is vote choice, and the IVs  are primarily ballot secrecy perceptions, ideological leanings and strength, and race. My research thus far has been causal and will continue to be so.

While my efforts last quarter were focused on replicating the basic structure of their experiment, I ultimately used only one of a host of data to create an indicator for ballot secrecy. This quarter, I hope to accurately recreate their indicator for secrecy, so that my regressions match theirs. At that point, I will hope to extend my research by focusing on certain questions that they did not examine, namely the relevance of race as an interaction with perceptions of ballot secrecy.
